# A Treatise on Prototypal Inheritance

In 1809, fifty years before Darwin released _Origin of the Species_, Jean-Baptiste Larmarck released _Zoological Philosophy_, which detailed his proposed mechanism for evolution, the "inheritance of acquired traits." Though Lamarck's work is just a piece of historical trivia in the scientific world, it can teach us a lot about prototypal inheritance in Javascript, and how it differs from traditional class-based inheritance. 

The idea goes that as an organism lived, it acquired certain characteristics--a certain speed at which it ran, muscles it bulked through repeated use, a set of mental faculties. These acquired characteristics were then passed on to its progeny. Obviously, this isn't how biological inheritance works, but it is how prototypal inheritance works; a prototype is itself an object, and its characteristics serve as a template for other objects that declare it as a prototype. The new objects can override characteristics they acquired from their parent, and in turn serve as prototypes for other objects.

Class-based inheritance systems are akin to scientific species; they serve as broad templates that don't refer to individuals in the species. Tigris is a species referring to a large type of cat, but it isn't itself a tiger. Tigris is itself a subclass of Panthera (the genus), and so on and so forth. The difference is that in Javascript, constructor functions and prototypes are themselves objects that are non-distinct from the objects that inherit from them. While classes don't obtain new properties at run time, objects can, and objects that serve as prototypes that acquire new traits continue to pass the new traits on to their progeny. 