Writing a Rails Model.md, before:

# Writing a Rails Model

A Rails Model is a Ruby [class](http://google.com) that can add [database records](http://google.com) (think of whole rows in an Excel table), find particular data you're looking for, update that data, or remove data. These common operations are referred to by the acronym [CRUD](http://google.com)--Create, Remove, Update, Destroy. 

There are other ways to perform CRUD operations on databases--the most common  way is to use a [Data Definition Language](http://google.com) like [SQL](http://google.com)--but Rails makes the whole business a lot easier and more extensible for reasons described in the entry on [migrations](https://github.com/brettshollenberger/ruby_wiki/blob/master/Migrations.md). 

Since the model can perform CRUD operations on an _entire_ table in the database, it should be given a description of every column in that table. Again, thinking of Excel, if we had a table for a users in our system, we would want to think of each type of data we'd like to keep track of for individual users. In the following example, I've used just a username and password. (We wouldn't actually want to store unencrypted passwords in the database, but we'll leave that concept out for now). 

The simplest way to write a model class is to let Rails do it for you. Rails contains a model generator, which you can use via your [command line](http://google.com), as long as you're in a Rails app already.

		rails generate model ModelName ColumnOneName:ColumnOneType ColumnTwoName:ColumnTwoType
		
For example: 

		rails generate model User username:string password:string
		
As we'll see in the command line, the model generator generates a number of files for us:

		create    db/migrate/20130518173035_create_users.rb
		create    app/models/user.rb

		create      test/unit/user_test.rb
		create      test/fixtures/users.yml

I've left out a few statements to show only the files that have been generated for us.

1) First is the migration file, which is stored in `db/migrate` like all other migrations files. Migrations describe the changes we'll be making to our database (though haven't actually enacted just yet). In this case, the generated migrations file says: 

		class CreateUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration
		  def change
		    create_table :users do |t|
		      t.string :username
		      t.string :password
		
		      t.timestamps
		    end
		  end
		end
		
Let's break this down:

The first line says: Create a class called "CreateUsers" that [inherits](http://google.com) its functionality from Active Record's Migration class. That line's already a doozy, but here's the breakdown's breakdown: The Migrations class in Active Record contains helper methods that perform CRUD operations, like add_table, add_column, and rename_table. These are the types of things we our class (CreateUsers) to do, so it inherits those methods, giving our class the ability to perform them. 

The second line says, create a [method](http://google.com) called "change." The method name is [convention](http://googe.com) in Rails for [constructive migrations](http://google.com)--aka migrations that _add_ something to a database (in this case we're adding a whole table, but add_column and add_index are also constructive migrations). Since writing a Rails model will always be a constructive migration, we won't explore the other options in this article; check out [Writing a Rails Migration] for details on convention for destructive or change-oriented migrations.

If we had a _destructive_ or _change-oriented_ migration, like drop_table or change_column, we would have wanted to name this method "up" instead of "change." 

		def up
			change_column :users, :username, :email
		end

		def down
  			change_column :users, :email, :username
		end

Commit message:

Update Writing a Rails Migration and Writing a Rails Model

Writing a Rails Model.md, after:

# Writing a Rails Model

A Rails Model is a Ruby [class](http://google.com) that can add [database records](http://google.com) (think of whole rows in an Excel table), find particular data you're looking for, update that data, or remove data. These common operations are referred to by the acronym [CRUD](http://google.com)--Create, Remove, Update, Destroy. 

There are other ways to perform CRUD operations on databases--the most common  way is to use a [Data Definition Language](http://google.com) like [SQL](http://google.com)--but Rails makes the whole business a lot easier and more extensible for reasons described in the entry on [migrations](https://github.com/brettshollenberger/ruby_wiki/blob/master/Migrations.md). 

Since the model can perform CRUD operations on an _entire_ table in the database, it should be given a description of every column in that table. Again, thinking of Excel, if we had a table for a users in our system, we would want to think of each type of data we'd like to keep track of for individual users. In the following example, I've used just a username and password. (We wouldn't actually want to store unencrypted passwords in the database, but we'll leave that concept out for now). 

The simplest way to write a model class is to let Rails do it for you. Rails contains a model generator, which you can use via your [command line](http://google.com), as long as you're in a Rails app already.

		rails generate model ModelName ColumnOneName:ColumnOneType ColumnTwoName:ColumnTwoType
		
For example: 

		rails generate model User username:string password:string
		
As we'll see in the command line, the model generator generates a number of files for us:

		create    db/migrate/20130518173035_create_users.rb
		create    app/models/user.rb

		create      test/unit/user_test.rb
		create      test/fixtures/users.yml

I've left out a few statements to show only the files that have been generated for us.

1) First is the migration file, which is stored in `db/migrate` like all other migrations files. Migrations describe the changes we'll be making to our database (though haven't actually enacted just yet). In this case, the generated migrations file says: 

		class CreateUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration
		  def change
		    create_table :users do |t|
		      t.string :username
		      t.string :password
		
		      t.timestamps
		    end
		  end
		end
		
Let's break this down:

The first line says: Create a class called "CreateUsers" that [inherits](http://google.com) its functionality from Active Record's Migration class. That line's already a doozy, but here's the breakdown's breakdown: The Migrations class in Active Record contains helper methods that perform CRUD operations, like add_table, add_column, and rename_table. These are the types of things we our class (CreateUsers) to do, so it inherits those methods, giving our class the ability to perform them. 

The second line says, create a [method](http://google.com) called "change." The method name is [convention](http://google.com) in Rails for [constructive migrations](http://google.com)--aka migrations that _add_ something to a database (in this case we're adding a whole table, but add_column and add_index are also constructive migrations). Since writing a Rails model will always be a constructive migration, we won't explore the other options in this article; check out [Writing a Rails Migration](https://github.com/brettshollenberger/ruby_wiki/blob/master/Writing%20a%20Rails%20Migration.md) for details on convention for destructive or change-oriented migrations.

The next lines describe the changes we want to make--we create the table called users (note the pluralization of the name we gave it, since it describes multiple _users_), and add columns called :username, :password. Active Record will also automatically add the timestamps columns created_at and updated_at (and it will also keep track of these for us as we add records to the table). Finally, an auto-incrementing [primary key](http://google.com) named id will be added by default, so we don't need to describe it.

With this file already created for us, we can run (back in the command line)

		rake db:migrate
		
To create the table and update the schema. 

2) Second is the model file: `app/models/user.rb`. 

By default, the file Rails generates for us is:

		class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  			attr_accessible :password, :username
		end
		
Again, let's break the file down:

The file creates a User class, which as we described at the beginning of this article, is a Model class. This class is the object we'll use to perform CRUD operations on the database--it's the thing we really wanted to create to make our lives easier.

Like CreateUsers, which inherited from Active Record's Migration class, Users inherits functionality from an Active Record class: Base. Base is at the heart of Active Record: it has all the functionality for querying the database, writing to it, deleting from it, timestamping, persistence, validations--and tons of other goodies. By inheriting from Base, we've already transformed User into a rather powerful class capable of creating and destroying worlds (as long as they exist within the users table).
